Testing Overview
----------------
This document outlines a manual testing procedure for the reporting-view
package, which is part of the OpenStack Reporting component. The reporting-view
package is a javascript application that accesses data from the reporting-api
and presents it to the user in their browser.

The reporting-vew application presents the user with a number of different views
on the reporting data, primarily an overview of usage across all nodes, a
project utilisation view, a flavour availability view, and a project details
view.

Due to the complexities of automating an interactive process like browser
interaction the testing procedure is a manual one.

Testing Procedure
-----------------

Login
-----
Visit the site (currently at http://130.56.253.127). You should find yourself at
a login page that has a button to support AAF authentication and a form to
support manual authentication. Select the Username input and enter the single
character 'a', then click on the "Manually" button. You should be redirected to
the http://130.56.253.127/utilisation URL.

Aggregate Utilisation
---------------
Once the page has finished pulling down data it will show four pie charts
displaying VCPUs, Memory, Local Storage and Volume Storage. The charts display
the total available resources, split into used and unused portions.  Moving the
mouse over each segment will display a tooltip showing the value of the segment,
and highlight corresponding segments in other pie charts.

Left-clicking on the pie chart "Used" segment will switch the charts' mode to
showing the per-organisation usage. Left clicking on one segment in that mode
will switch the charts to showing the project usage for projects owned by that
organisation. Finally, left clicking on a chart again will switch them back to
the original used/available mode.

In each display mode the contents of the charts are sorted consistently by VCPU
use, from largest to smallest in a clockwise direction. This means that across
all four charts the colour of an organisation or project's segments will match.

Below the pie charts is a line graph displaying historical usage across all
nodes. This graph presents three data sets: VCPUs used, Memory used and Local
Storage used - the legend allows the user to switch between the data sets by
clicking on the legend entry for a data set will switch to displaying that data
set.

Below the main graph is a focus bar. Left clicking and dragging on the focus
bar allows you to zoom in on the main graph. A single left click on the focus
bar will reset the zoom to the default.

Project Details
---------------
The project details view allows the user to display information about detailed
resource usage by projects and organisations.

Click on the Project drop down box and scroll through the list until you find
the ACAD project and select it. A pie chart will be drawn displaying the
VCPUs used and available for the ACAD project. Click on the Resource drop down
box and select Memory - the pie chart will switch to displaying the used and
available memory. Click on the Resource drop down box and select Ephemeral
Storage, and the chart will switch to displaying the total amount of ephemeral
storage used. Click on the Resource drop down box and select Volume Storage, and
the chart should disappear - there should be no volume storage used by this
project.

Click on the Project drop down box and type in GenomicsVL, and hit enter. The
pie chart should be drawn showing volume storage usage for this project. Switch
to a different resource and it will display the relevant data.

Below the pie chart will be two line charts displaying historical usage for the
selected resource. The top chart is a focus bar, similar to the focus bar on the
node aggregates page. In this chart both can be used to control focus by
clicking and dragging on the graph. With the GenomicsVL data displayed click and
drag on part of the top graph - the bottom graph will zoom in on the selected
data. Mouse over a visible point on the bottom graph, and a tooltip will display
the event that caused that point on the line to be created - i.e. the creation
or deletion of a particular resource. Click on the Resource drop down box and
select a different resource type - the graphs will change to display the new
data.

Click on the Organiation radio button to switch to displaying data per
organisation rather than per project. This will take a little while to display as
it will need to download all the data for the University of Melbourne (the
organisation that owns the GenomicsVL project); once it has finished it will
display resource usage totalled across all the projects owned by the University
of Melbourne. Interaction with the historical usage graphs is the same as when
displaying a single project.

Flavour Capacity
----------------
The Flavour Capacity view displays resource use per hypervisor, and also
implements a naive estimate of the number of instances of a given flavour that
can be launced across the federation.

The initial view displays two drop down boxes, one to select the node to
display, the second to select the flavour to calculate node capacity for.
Selecting a node will display the hypervisors for that node, and selecting a
flavour will display the capacity estimate.

Information is presented in a simple table showing hypervisors and their
associated resources. Columns displayed are N (the number of instances of each
flavour that a hypervisor has available capacity for), host (the hypervisor
hostname), and horizontal bar charts for the vcpus, memory, and disk (the local
disk capacity). Columns can be sorted either descending or ascending by left
clicking on the column header - a small arrow will be displayed in the sorted
column showing the sort order.

Running the mouse over a row in the table will display the resources that
hypervisor has, in the format 'used/available' (i.e. 20/32 to indicate 20 vcpus
used out of 32 available, or 150GB/252GB indicating used/available memory). When
a hypervisor is overcommitted on one of its resources the corresponding bar in
the chart is outlined in red.

Selecting a flavour from the flavour drop down list displays the hypervisors
that have available capacity to run the selected flavour. The list is sorted by
the number of instances each hypervisor can run. Hypervisors that cannot run the
selected instance are greyed out.

Project Details
-------
The Project Details view provides a report on a project's historical usage. 

(XXX: this will be brief and incomplete)

The page has a drop down box to select the project to display. Once a project
has been selected the last six months of usage will be displayed in a bar graph
on the right of the page, with aggregate usage statistics displayed to the left.
Below these is a table displaying details about all the project's instances: the
instance name, createor, flavour, availability zone, date started and
terminated, walltime, and usage units (XXX: needs clarification about usage
units). The table can be sorted by clicking on the column headers.
